---
layout: post
title:  New publication online single-cell RNA-seq data analysis accepted by <b><i>Briefings in Bioinformatics</i></b>
date:   2018-08-02
excerpt: >
  Taiyun's work on "Impact of similarity metrics on single-cell RNA-seq data clustering" is accepted by <b><i>Briefings in Bioinformatics</i></b>.
---
  
  Taiyun's work on "Impact of similarity metrics on single-cell RNA-seq data clustering" is accepted by <b><i>Briefings in Bioinformatics</i></b>. Congratulations to Taiyun for such an achievement!
  

### Abstract

Advances in high-throughput sequencing on single-cell gene expressions (scRNA-seq) have enabled transcriptome profil-ing on individual cells from complex samples. A common goal in scRNA-seq data analysis is to discover and character-ise cell types, typically through clustering methods. The quality of the clustering therefore plays a critical role in biological discovery. While numerous clustering algorithms have been proposed for scRNA-seq data, fundamentally they all rely on a similarity metric for categorizing individual cells. Although several studies have compared the performance of various clustering algorithms for scRNA-seq data, currently there is no benchmark of different similarity metrics and their influ-ence on scRNA-seq data clustering. Here, we compared a panel of similarity metrics on clustering a collection of anno-tated scRNA-seq datasets. Within each dataset, a stratified subsampling procedure was applied and an array of evalua-tion measures was employed to assess the similarity metrics. This produced a highly reliable and reproducible consen-sus on their performance assessment. Overall, we found that correlation-based metrics (e.g. Pearson’s correlation) out-performed distance-based metrics (e.g. Euclidean distance). To test if the use of correlation-based metrics can benefit the recently published clustering techniques for scRNA-seq data, we modified a state-of-the-art kernel-based clustering algorithm (SIMLR) using Pearson’s correlation as a similarity measure and found significant performance improvement over Euclidean distance on scRNA-seq data clustering. These findings demonstrate the importance of similarity metric in clustering scRNA-seq data and highlight Pearson’s correlation as a favourable choice. Further comparison on different scRNA-seq library preparation protocols suggests that they may also affect clustering performance. Finally, the bench-marking framework is available at http://www.maths.usyd.edu.au/u/SMS/bioinformatics/software.html